An important business component
of effectively managing the hospital's supply chain,
is the efficiency and the operations
it supports and promotes.
However, even more important is managing
the hospital's supply chain because it improves
patient care and safety.
If or when supplies are used on patients
and those supplies are expired,
stored incorrectly or damaged, it can lead
to patient safety issues or sentinel events
where the patient dies as a result.
The first line of defense to prevent this
is to have all staff manage the supplies
within their control effectively.
For example, the warehouse staff would manage
how they handle supplies once they come into the facility.
Inventory staff would manage the supplies
as they store and distribute to the clinical areas
by storing properly, rotating, and checking
expiration dates.
The clinical staff would monitor storage areas
for cleanliness, make sure supplies are stored properly,
rotate stock, and make sure that supplies
used are not expired.